TOPIC
    Command search

SHORT DESCRIPTION
    How the Windows PowerShell locates commands

LONG DESCRIPTION
    When you enter a command at the command prompt, PowerShell searches for the 
    command according to specific rules. However, the manner in which that 
    search is conducted depends on whether or not you specify a fully 
    qualified path name for the command. If you do supply the full path, 
    PowerShell uses the version of the command at that location, whether or not
    a command with the same name exists at another location.

    For example, the following command runs the script in the finddocs.ps1
    file, located in the c:\techdocs directory:

        c:\techdocs\finddocs

    If PowerShell cannot find the finddocs.ps1 file in the specified path, no 
    scripts are run, and a message is returned indicating that the command 
    cannot be found, even if the file exists in another location.

    When you enter a command without specifying the fully qualified path 
    name, PowerShell searches for the command in the following order, until it 
    finds a match:

    1. Currently defined aliases

    2. Currently defined functions

    3. Commands located in any directories specified in the path 
    environment variable

    In addition to referring to an alias or function, a command name can 
    refer to a Cmdlet, an .ps1 script file, or an executable file with the 
    extension .bat, .cmd, .com, or .exe. Windows Script Host (WSH) files 
    with a .vbs, .js, .wsh, or .wsf extension rely on the WSH engine, 
    either wscript.exe or cscript.exe, to run. Therefore, you can also run 
    these script file types in the PowerShell environment.

SEE ALSO
    For information about fully qualified path names, enter the following 
    command at the PowerShell command prompt:

        help about_path_syntax

    For information about aliases, enter the following command:

        help about_alias

    For information about functions, enter the following command:

        help about_function

    For information about environment variables, enter the following 
    command:

        help about_environment_variable

