TOPIC
    Command syntax

SHORT DESCRIPTION
    Command format in the Windows PowerShell

LONG DESCRIPTION
    An PowerShell command is a set of one or more Cmdlets, functions, programs,
    or script files (including any parameters) that are connected by pipe (|) 
    symbols. Each command must conform to a specific format, which is shown 
    in the following syntax:

        <command_phrase> [ | <command_phrase> ]...

    As the syntax indicates, a command can include multiple command 
    phrases, which are separated by pipe symbols. The pipe symbol indicates 
    that the output of the first command phrase should be passed on, or 
    piped, to the next command phrase, rather than be displayed on the 
    screen. A command phrase consists of the following elements:

        <command_name> [ <parameter> ]...

    A command name can be any built-in or external command supported by 
    PowerShell, including Cmdlets (or their aliases), functions, programs, or 
    script files. Each command name can be associated with one or more 
    parameters.

    A parameter is made up of one or two elements: the parameter name, 
    which is preceded by a hyphen (-), and a value (argument) that must 
    conform to the command specifications. If a parameter is configured as 
    a positional parameter, the name and hyphen can be omitted if the 
    argument is provided in the same position as it is defined in the 
    command specifications. For example, to list all the items in drive C: 
    you can use the following syntax:

        Get-ChildItem -path c:\

    However, because -path is a positional parameter in the Get-ChildItem 
    Cmdlet, you do not have to provide the parameter name, as shown in the 
    following statement:

        Get-ChildItem c:\

    As you can see, positional parameters allow you to specify the argument 
    with or without the parameter name. However, if you do use parameter 
    names, you can specify the parameters in any order. This is also true 
    of named parameters (parameters that always require a parameter name). 
    You simply precede each argument with the parameter name (and hyphen), 
    without regard to the parameter's defined position.

SEE ALSO
    For information about parameters, enter the following command at the 
    PowerShell command prompt:

        help about_parameter

    For information about pipelines, enter the following command:

        help about_pipeline

    For information about aliases, enter the following command:

        help about_alias

