TOPIC
    Command line editing

SHORT DESCRIPTION
    Editing commands at the Windows PowerShell command prompt

LONG DESCRIPTION
    When you type a command at the PowerShell command prompt or use the 
    command history to retrieve a command, you can modify the elements of that 
    command at the command prompt before you run the command. PowerShell allows 
    you to move backward and forward within the command as well as edit 
    individual characters.

    To move forward or backward within a command or to edit any of the 
    command elements, you can take any of the following steps:

    * Press the Left Arrow key to move the cursor to the left, and press 
    the Right Arrow key to move the cursor to the right.

    * Press the Home key to move the cursor to the beginning of the 
    command, and press the End key to move the cursor to the end of the 
    command.

    * Press Ctrl+Left Arrow to move the cursor one word to the left, and 
    press Ctrl+Right Arrow to move the cursor one word to the right.

    * Press the Insert key to put the command line into overstrike mode, 
    and press the Insert key again to put the command line back into insert 
    mode. When the command line is in overstrike mode, the character you 
    type replaces the character highlighted by the cursor. When the command 
    line is in insert mode (the default mode), the character you type is 
    inserted before the cursor.

    * Press the Backspace key to delete the character in front of the 
    cursor (overstrike mode or insert mode). In overstrike mode, press the 
    Delete key to delete the highlighted character. In insert mode, press 
    the Delete key to delete the next character.

    * Press the Tab key to automatically complete a path that you have 
    begun to type. If the first path displayed in not the path you want, 
    press Tab again until the correct path is displayed. Note that the Tab 
    key will complete the path only to one child level. For example, if you 
    type c:\ and then press the Tab key, one of your path options will be 
    c:\windows, but not c:\windows\system32. To move to the next level in 
    the hierarchy, type a backslash after the selected parent and then 
    press the Tab key. For example, if you press Tab until c:\windows is 
    displayed, you can then type the backslash key at the end of the line, 
    and then press the Tab key to tab through to next level in the 
    hierarchy.

SEE ALSO
    For information about the command history, enter the following command 
    at the PowerShell command prompt:

        help about_history

    For information about command syntax, enter the following command:

        help about_command_syntax

    For information about path syntax, enter the following command:

        help about_path_syntax

