TOPIC
    Wildcards

SHORT DESCRIPTION
    Using wildcards in Cmdlet parameters in the Windows PowerShell 

LONG DESCRIPTION
    In many cases, you will want to run a Cmdlet against a group of 
    items, rather than an individual item. For example, you might 
    want to locate all files in the c:\techdocs directory that use a 
    .ppt extension. If you were to run the following command, you 
    would return all items in the directory:

        Get-ChildItem c:\techdocs

    The problem with this command is that you would have to visually 
    inspect all documents listed in the directory to determine which 
    files use the .ppt extension. However, you can limit the items 
    returned by using wildcards in a Cmdlet's parameters. A wildcard 
    is a type of placeholder that allows you to search unknown values 
    in order to return specific results. The process of using 
    wildcards is sometimes referred to as "globbing." For example, 
    you can recast the previous example so that only .ppt files are 
    returned:

        Get-ChildItem c:\techdocs\*.ppt

    In this case, the * wildcard is used to specify that any 
    characters can exist before the .ppt extension. Because the file 
    extension is included, all files returned by the command must 
    have that extension, but the files can have any name. As a 
    result, only files that you're looking for are returned.

    PowerShell supports several wildcards in addition to the * wildcard:

    Wildcard Description        Example  Match             No match
    -------- ------------------ -------- ----------------- --------
    *        Matches zero or    a*       A, ag, Apple      banana
             more characters
    ?        Matches exactly    ?n       an, in, on        ran
             one character in 
             the specified 
             position
    [ ]      Matches a range    [a-l]ook book, cook, look  took
             of characters 
    [ ]      Matches specified  [bc]ook  book, cook        hook
             characters

    Most Cmdlets accept wildcards in some of their parameters. The 
    Help topic for each Cmdlet describes which parameters, if any, 
    permit wildcards. For parameters in which wildcards are accepted, 
    their use is case insensitive. For example, ?n will return An, 
    an, In, in, On, on.

    You can also mix wildcards within a single parameter. For 
    example, suppose that you want to display all .txt files in the 
    c:\techdocs directory that begin with the letters a through l. 
    You can use the following command:

        Get-ChildItem c:\techdocs\[a-l]*.txt

    The command uses a range wildcard ([a-l]) to specify that the 
    filename should begin with the letters a through l. The command 
    then uses the * wildcard to provide a placeholder for any 
    characters between the first letter and the file extension.

SEE ALSO
    For information about individual Cmdlets, enter the help alias 
    (for the Get-Help Cmdlet) plus the Cmdlet name at the PowerShell command 
    prompt. For example, to view information about the Get-ChildItem 
    Cmdlet, enter the following command:

        help Get-ChildItem

